So, now, let's talk about MFA
or Multi-Factor Authentication.
So users have access to your account
and they can possibly change configurations
or delete resources in your account.
And so you want to make sure that you're going to protect
your Root Accounts and your IAM users.
So MFA implies that you have a password
you know to log into AWS,
and then a security device you own
that's going to give you a code
that allows you to do the login.
So Alice has a Password
and then, thanks to the device you own,
for example, your phone or a security key or whatever,
then you're going to get a Successful login.
So the main benefit of MFA
is that even if you lose your password,
then the account is not compromised.
The hacker will still need to be able to access
your MFA device, which is very unlikely,
to access your account.
So you have different options in AWS,
you have a Virtual MFA device,
which is something like Google Authenticator or Authy,
and you can have support
for multiple tokens on a single device.
So you just register a service and then it gives you a code,
or you can use, for example, a security key,
such as a YubiKey,
which supports for multiple root
and IAM users using a single security key.
You also have the hardware type of MFA devices.
So, for example, one by Gemalto which gives you a code,
or you have the Hardware Key Fob MFA Device
for AWS GovCloud which is provided by SurePassID,
and again, gives you a code
that you just enter while logging in.
So, why do I talk about MFA?
Well, because, thanks to MFA, we can have conditions,
and the first one is around Amazon S3-MFA Delete.
So if you enable MFA Delete,
you force users to generate a code on a device
before doing important operations on Amazon S3.
So MFA can be required, for example,
to permanently delete an object version,
because this is a destructive type of operation,
or suspend Versioning on the bucket.
But MFA for MFA Delete is not going to be required
for enabling Versioning or listing deleted version,
so less dangerous API calls, let's say.
So, to use MFA Delete,
you must first enable Versioning on the bucket.
And only the bucket owner, so the root account,
can enable or disable MFA Delete.
The other way to use MFA is around IAM Conditions
with the condition MultiFactorAuthPresent.
So here we have an IAM policy
which allows everything on ec2.
But then the second statement is quite interesting.
So we're saying that we cannot stop
or terminate the instances
if we have MultiFactorAuthPresent: false.
So that means that if we don't have MFA,
we cannot stop or terminate instances.
And that makes sense, it's very secure because,
well, you want to make sure your users
are authenticated using MFA.
So we'll use this Boolean condition,
and then we'll restrict very dangerous operations,
such as stopping an instance or terminating an instance.
And it's compatible with the Console,
but also compatible with the CLI.
You also have a very important edge case with MFA.
You're going to get sometimes an error message saying,
"Not Authorized to Perform the iam:DeleteVirtualMFADevice."
So this happens even though the user
has the correct permissions to delete
this Virtual MFA Device.
So you make an API Call to delete it
and then you're not authorized.
So this is a very small edge case in AWS,
but you need to know about it for the exam.
And this happens if someone began
assigning a virtual MFA device to a user,
but then canceled the process.
So, for example, you created an MFA device for a user
but you never activated it.
Then what you need to do is, of course,
delete the existing MFA device,
and then associate a new device.
And to prevent this thing,
you can have a policy that allows a user
to delete their own MFA device
if they are already authenticated with MFA.
So if you are getting into this kind of issue,
then the only option out of it
is to have the administrator to use the CLI
or the APIs of AWS to remove the existing
but deactivated device.
So the administrator is the one to delete
the virtual MFA device and then you're unstuck.
So it's a weird one, I know,
but something that can come up in the exam,
and that's the answer.
The admin has to delete the virtual MFA device.
Alright, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.